Group Number,Group Leader,Experiment Title,Experiment Description,Field,Grade
1,Smith,How Light Affects Plant Growth,The relationship between light and plant growth can be demonstrated by exposing leaves to various colors of light. Light supplies the power to carry on photosynthesis the food making process in leaves. But the spectrum of light most utilized by a leaf is limited to three distinct colors red blue and yellow. For example leaves appear green because green is the color most leaves reflect rather than absorb and use.,Biology,Pass
2,Jones,Salinity and Hatching Brine Shrimp Eggs,The ocean and some lakes are salty and this salt comes from the rocks in the water. You cant see the salt in the water because it is dissolved but it has a big impact on the creatures that can live in an environment. The amount (or concentration) of salt in the water is called salinity. Brine shrimp have an interesting life cycle. The adult shrimp lays cysts that contain baby shrimp.,Biology,Fail
3,Spencer,Corn Seed Germination,A seed is the house for a future plant outfitted to furnish what a baby plant needs to start to grow and succeed in life. A seed is wrapped in a tough outer coating that prevents the future plant from damage. Inside there is a food supply and the beginnings of a new plant. In the world of flowering plants there are monocots and dicots. A monocot seeds has anembryothat contains one cotyledon the part of the plant that becomes its first leaves. A dicot seed has an embryo with two cotyledons. ,Biology,Pass
4,Moore,Factors Affecting Solubility,"Solubility can be very useful in helping to purify products. Cooling down a solution until a solid solute comes out is called crashing out. When the solute assumes the form of crystals this process is referred to as crystallization. The crystals that form are pure products, and can be very pretty. There are several factors affecting solubility including temperature and pressure.",Chemistry,Fail
5,Phillips,Acid Base Catalysis,Enzymes are special types of catalysts made of protein. Catalysts help speed up chemical reactions without being used up themselves. Enzymes are not just found in the human body they are found in all living things including yeast. Yeast contains the enzyme catalase. Catalase breaks down the chemical hydrogen peroxide H202 into oxygen gas and water. It is easy to see if catalase is working because as it creates oxygen gas causing bubbles to form.,Chemistry,Pass
6,Howard,Limewater Carbon Dioxide,Carbon dioxide also commonly known by its chemical formula CO2 is one of the major building blocks of life. It is usually found in its gaseous form and is a major part of the plant and animal life cycle. CO2 is consumed by plants in photosynthesis and is produced by animals during respiration. It is also expelled from the earths core during volcanic eruptions and exits a vehicles engine from its tailpipe when the motor is running.,Chemistry,Fail
7,Brooks,Steam Powered Rocket ,Steam which is the gaseous version of water can be used to power trains lights in buildings and your very own model boat. Learn how to make a steam powered rocket boat to see Sir Isaac Newtons third law of motion in action. For every force or action there is an equal force or action in the opposite direction.,Physics,Pass
8,Sanders,Electromagnetic Induction Experiment,The current will flow in the direction the thumb is pointing and the magnetic field direction will be described by the direction of the fingers. This means when you change the direction of the current you also change the direction of the magnetic field. Current flows which means electrons flow from the negative end of a battery through the wire to the positive end of the battery which can help you determine what the direction of the magnetic field will be.,Physics,Fail
9,Kennedy,Perpetual Motion Machine,Perpetual motion refers to the impossible concept of never ending motion. Universal laws insist that energy cannot be created from nothing nor can it be destroyed but can only be transformed. You only get as much work from a device as the energy you put into it. In spite of all this inventors throughout human history have made various attempts at building perpetual motion devices.,Physics,Pass
